Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
BI-DIRECTIONAL ATTENTION FLOW
FOR MACHINE COMPREHENSION
Minjoon Seo, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Ali Farhadi & Hananneh Hajishirzi
University of Washington, Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence
fminjoon,ali,hannanehg@cs.washington.edu, fanikg@allenai.org
ABSTRACT
Machine Comprehension (MC), answering a query about a given context, requires
modeling complex interactions between the context and the query. Recently, attention
mechanisms have been successfully extended to MC. Typically these methods
use attention to summarize the context (or query) into a single vector, couple attentions
temporally, and often form a uni-directional attention. In this paper we
introduce the Bi-Directional Attention Flow (BIDAF) network, a multi-stage hierarchical
process that represents the context at different levels of granularity and
uses a bi-directional attention flow mechanism to achieve a query-aware context
representation without early summarization. Our experimental evaluations show
that our model achieves the state-of-the-art results in Stanford Question Answering
Dataset (SQuAD) and CNN/DailyMail cloze test.
1 INTRODUCTION
The tasks of machine comprehension (MC) and question answering (QA) have gained significant
popularity over the past few years within the natural language processing and computer vision communities.
Systems trained end-to-end now achieve promising results on a variety of tasks in the text
and image domains. One of the key factors to the advancement has been the use of neural attention
mechanism, which allows a differentiable system to focus on a targeted area of sentences (for MC)
or an image (for Visual QA) (Weston et al., 2015; Antol et al., 2015; Xiong et al., 2016a). Attention
mechanisms in previous work typically have one or more of the following characteristics. First, the
computed attention weights are often used to summarize each constituent with a single vector, i.e.
to extract the most relevant information per modality. Second, they are often temporally dynamic,
whereby the attention weights at the current time step are a function of the attended vector at the
previous time step. Third, they are usually uni-directional, wherein the query attends on the context
(words in the language domain and image patches in the vision domain).
In this paper, we introduce the Bi-Directional Attention Flow (BIDAF) network, a hierarchical
multi-stage architecture for modeling the representations of the context at different levels of granularity
(Figure 1). BIDAF includes character-level, word-level, and phrase-level embeddings, and
uses bi-directional attention flow for query-aware context representation. Our attention mechanism
offers following improvements to the previously popular attention paradigms. First, our attention
layer is not used to summarize each modality into a single vector. Instead, the attention is computed
for every time step, and the attended vector at each time step, along with the representations from
previous layers, is allowed to flow through to the subsequent modelling layer (RNNs). This reduces
the information loss caused by early summarization. Second, we use a memory-less attention mechanism.
That is, while we iteratively compute attention through time as in Bahdanau et al. (2015),
the attention at each time step is a function of only the query and context at the current time step
and does not directly depend on the attention at the previous time step. We hypothesize that this
simplification leads to the division of labor between the attention layer and the modeling (RNN)
layer. It forces the attention layer to solely focus on learning the attention between context and
query, and lets the modeling (RNN) layer to learn the interaction within the query-aware context
representation (the output of the attention layer). It also allows the attention at each time step to be
The majority of the work was done while the author was interning at Allen Institute for AI.
1 arXiv:1611.01603v3 [
cs.CL] 29 Nov 2016
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
Modeling Layer
Output Layer
Attention Flow
Layer
Phrase Embed
Layer
Word Embed
Layer
x1 x2 x3 xT q1 qJ
LSTM
LSTM
LSTM LSTM
Start End
h1 h2 hT
u1
u2
uJ
Softmax
h1 h2 hT
u1
u2
uJ
Max
Softmax
Context2Query
Query2Context
h1 h2 hT u1 uJ
Dense + Softmax LSTM + Softmax
Context Query
Query2Context and Context2Query
Attention
Word
Embedding
GLOVE Char-CNN
Character
Embed Layer
Character
Embedding
g1 g2 gT
m1 m2 mT
Figure 1: BiDirectional Attention Flow Model (best viewed in color)
unaffected from incorrect attendances at previous time steps. Our experiments show that memoryless
attention gives a clear advantage over dynamic attention. Third, we use attention mechanism in
both directions, query-to-context and context-to-query, which provide complimentary information
to each other.
Our BIDAF model1 outperforms all previous approaches on the highly-competitive Stanford Question
Answering Dataset (SQuAD) test set leaderboard at the time of submission. The same model
architecture achieves the state-of-the-art results on CNN/DailyMail cloze test. We also provide an
in-depth ablation study of our model on the SQuAD development set, visualize the intermediate
feature spaces in our model, analyse its performance as compared to a more traditional language
model for machine comprehension (Rajpurkar et al., 2016) and present an analysis of the questions
answered incorrectly by our model.
2 MODEL
Our machine comprehension model is a hierarchical multi-stage process and consists of six layers
(Figure 1):
1. Character Embedding Layer maps each word to a vector space using character-level
CNNs.
2. Word Embedding Layer maps each word to a vector space using a pre-trained word embedding
model.
3. Phrase Embedding Layer utilizes contextual cues from surrounding words to refine the
embedding of the words. These first three layers are applied to both the query and context.
4. Attention Flow Layer couples the query and context vectors and produces a set of queryaware
feature vectors for each word in the context.
5. Modeling Layer employs a Recurrent Neural Network to scan the context.
6. Output Layer provides an answer to the query.
1. Character Embedding Layer. Character embedding layer is responsible for mapping each
word to a high-dimensional vector space. Let fx1; : : : xT g and fq1; : : : qJg represent the words in
1Our code and interactive demo are public at allenai.github.io/bi-att-flow/
2
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
the input context paragraph and query, respectively. Following Kim (2014), we obtain the characterlevel
embedding of each word using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). Characters are embedded
into vectors, which can be considered as 1D input to the CNN, and whose size is the input
channel size of the CNN. The outputs of the CNN is max-pooled over the entire width to obtain a
fixed-size vector for each word.
2. Word Embedding Layer. Word embedding layer also maps each word to a high-dimensional
vector space. We use pre-trained word vectors, GloVe (Pennington et al., 2014), to obtain the fixed
word embedding of each word.
The concatenation of the character and word embedding vectors is passed to a two-layer Highway
Network (Srivastava et al., 2015). The outputs of the Highway Network are two sequences of d-
dimensional vectors, or more conveniently, two matrices: X 2 RdT for the context and Q 2 RdJ
for the query.
3. Phrase Embedding Layer. In the phrase embedding layer, we use a Long Short-Term Memory
Network (LSTM) (Hochreiter & Schmidhuber, 1997) on top of the embeddings provided by the
previous layers, to model the temporal interactions between words. We place an LSTM in both
directions, and concatenate the outputs of the two LSTMs. Hence we obtain H 2 R2dT from
the context word vectors X, and U 2 R2dJ from query word vectors Q. Note that each column
vector of H and U is 2d-dimensional because of the concatenation of the outputs of the forward and
backward LSTMs, each with d-dimensional output.
It is worth noting that the first three layers of the model are computing features from the query and
context at different levels of granularity, akin to the multi-stage feature computation of convolutional
neural networks in the computer vision field.
4. Attention Flow Layer. Attention flow layer is responsible for linking and fusing information
from both of the context and the query words. Unlike previously popular attention mechanisms,
the attention flow layer is not used to summarize the query and context into single feature vectors.
Instead, the attention vector at each time step, along with the embeddings from previous layers, is
allowed to flow through to the subsequent modelling layer. This reduces the information loss caused
by early summarization.
The inputs to the layer are phrase-level vector representations of the context H and the query U.
The outputs of the layer are the query-aware vector representations of the context words, G, along
with the phrase-level embeddings from the previous layer.
In this layer, we compute a bi-directional attention from context-to-query as well as query-tocontext.
These attentions are derived from the similarity matrix, S 2 RTJ , between the the phraselevel
embeddings of the context (H) and the query (U), where Stj indicates the similarity between
t-th context word and j-th query word. The similarity matrix is computed by
Stj = (H:t;U:j) 2 R (1)
where  is a scalar function that encodes the similarity between its two input vectors, H:t is t-th
column vector of H, and U:j is j-th column vector of U, We choose (h; u) = w>
(S)[h; u; h  u],
where w(S) 2 R6d is a trainable weight,  is elementwise multiplication, [; ] is vector concatenation
across row, and implicit multiplication is matrix multiplication.
Context-to-query Attention. Context-to-query (C2Q) attention signifies which query words are
most relevant to each context word. Let at 2 RJ represent the attention weights on the query words
by t-th context word,
P
atj = 1 for all t. The attention weight is computed by at = softmax(St:) 2
RJ , and subsequently each attended query vector is ~U
:t =
P
j atjU:j . Hence ~U
is a 2d-by-T matrix
containing the attended query vectors for the entire context.
Query-to-context Attention. Query-to-context (Q2C) attention signifies which context words
have the closest similarity to one of the query words and are hence critical for answering the query.
We obtain the attention weights on the context words by b = softmax(maxcol(S)) 2 RT , where
the maximum function (maxcol) is performed across the column. Then the attended context vector
is ~h
=
P
t btH:t 2 R2d. This vector indicates the weighted sum of the most important words in the
context with respect to the query. ~h
is tiled T times across the column, thus giving ~H
2 R2dT .
3
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
Finally, the phrase-level embeddings and the attention vectors are combined together to yield G,
where each column vector can be considered as the query-aware representation of each context
word. We define G by
G:t = (H:t; ~U
:t; ~H
:t) 2 RdG (2)
where G:t is the t-th column vector (corresponding to t-th context word),  is a vector function that
fuses its (three) input vectors, and dG is the output dimension of the  function. While the  function
can be an arbitrary trainable neural network, such as multi-layer perceptron, a simple concatenation
as following still shows good performance in our experiments: (h; ~u;~ h) = [h; ~u; h  ~u; h  ~ h] 2
R8dT (i.e., dG = 8d).
5. Modeling Layer. The input to the modeling layer is G, which encodes the query-aware representations
of context words. The output of the modeling layer captures the interaction among
the context words conditioned on the query. This is different from the phrase embedding layer,
which captures the interaction among context words independent of the query. We use two layers
of bi-directional LSTM, with the output size of d for each direction. Hence we obtain a matrix
M 2 R2dT , which is passed onto the output layer to predict the answer. Each column vector of
M is expected to contain contextual information about the word with respect to the entire context
paragraph and the query.
6. Output Layer. The output layer is application-specific. The modular nature of BIDAF allows
us to easily swap out output layers based on the task, with the rest of the architecture remaining
exactly the same. Here, we describe the output layer for the QA task. In section 5, we use a slight
modifications of this output layer for Cloze-style comprehension.
The QA task requires the model to find a sub-phrase of the paragraph to answer the query. The
phrase is derived by predicting the start and the end indices of the phrase in the paragraph. We
obtain the probability distribution of the start index over the entire paragraph by
p1 = softmax(w>
(p1)[G;M]); (3)
where w(p1) 2 R10d is a trainable weight vector. For the end index of the answer phrase, we pass
M to another bidirectional LSTM layer and obtain M2 2 R2dT . Then we use M2 to obtain the
probability distribution of the end index in a similar manner:
p2 = softmax(w>
(p2)[G;M2]) (4)
Training. We define the training loss as the sum of the log probabilities of the true start and end
indices by the predicted distributions, aveaged over all examples:
L() = 􀀀
1
N
XN
i
log(p1
y1
i
) + log(p2
y2
i
) (5)
where  is the set of all trainable weights in the model (the weights and biases of CNN filters and
LSTM cells, w(S), w(p1) and w(p2)), N is the number of examples in the dataset, y1
i and y2
i are the
true start and end indices of the i-th example, respectively, and pk indicates the k-th value of the
vector p.
Test. The answer span (k; l) with the maximum value of p1
kp2l
is chosen, which can be computed
in linear time with dynamic programming.
3 RELATED WORK
Machine comprehension. A significant contributor to the advancement of MC models has been
the availability of large datasets. Early datasets such as MCTest (Richardson et al., 2013) were too
small to train end-to-end neural models. Massive cloze test datasets (CNN/DailyMail by Hermann
et al. (2015) and Childrens Book Test by Hill et al. (2016)), enabled the application of deep neural
architectures to this task. More recently, Rajpurkar et al. (2016) released the Stanford Question
Answering (SQuAD) dataset with over 100,000 questions. We evaluate the performance of our
comprehension system on both SQuAD and CNN/DailyMail datasets.
4
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
Previous work in end-to-end machine comprehension uses attention mechanisms in three distinct
ways. The first group (largely inspired by Bahdanau et al. (2015)) uses a dynamic attention mechanism,
in which the attention weights are updated dynamically given the query and the context as
well as the previous attention. Hermann et al. (2015) argue that the dynamic attention model performs
better than using a single fixed query vector to attend on context words on CNN & DailyMail
datasets. Chen et al. (2016) show that simply using bilinear term for computing the attention weights
in the same model drastically improves the accuracy. Wang & Jiang (2016) reverse the direction of
the attention (attending on query words as the context RNN progresses) for SQuAD. In contrast to
these models, BIDAF uses a memory-less attention mechanism.
The second group computes the attention weights once, which are then fed into an output layer for
final prediction (e.g., Kadlec et al. (2016)). Attention-over-attention model (Cui et al., 2016) uses
a 2D similarity matrix between the query and context words (similar to Equation 1) to compute
the weighted average of query-to-context attention. In contrast to these models, BIDAF does not
summarize the two modalities in the attention layer and instead lets the attention vectors flow into
the modeling (RNN) layer.
The third group (considered as variants of Memory Network (Weston et al., 2015)) repeats computing
an attention vector between the query and the context through multiple layers, typically referred
to as multi-hop (Sordoni et al., 2016; Dhingra et al., 2016). Shen et al. (2016) combine Memory
Networks with Reinforcement Learning in order to dynamically control the number of hops. One
can also extend our BIDAF model to incorporate multiple hops.
Visual question answering. The task of question answering has also gained a lot of interest in the
computer vision community. Early works on visual question answering (VQA) involved encoding
the question using an RNN, encoding the image using a CNN and combining them to answer the
question (Antol et al., 2015; Malinowski et al., 2015). Attention mechanisms have also been successfully
employed for the VQA task and can be broadly clustered based on the granularity of their
attention and the approach to construct the attention matrix. At the coarse level of granularity, the
question attends to different patches in the image (Zhu et al., 2016; Xiong et al., 2016a). At a finer
level, each question word attends to each image patch and the highest attention value for each spatial
location (Xu & Saenko, 2016) is adopted. A hybrid approach is to combine questions representations
at multiple levels of granularity (unigrams, bigrams, trigrams) (Yang et al., 2015). Several
approaches to constructing the attention matrix have been used including element-wise product,
element-wise sum, concatenation and Multimodal Compact Bilinear Pooling (Fukui et al., 2016).
Lu et al. (2016) have recently shown that in addition to attending from the question to image patches,
attending from the image back to the question words provides an improvement on the VQA task.
This finding in the visual domain is consistent with our finding in the language domain, where
our bi-directional attention between the query and context provides improved results. Their model,
however, uses the attention weights directly in the output layer and does not take the advantage of
the attention flow to the modeling layer.
4 QUESTION ANSWERING EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we evaluate our model on the task of question answering using the recently released
SQuAD (Rajpurkar et al., 2016), which has gained a huge attention over a few months. In the next
section, we evaluate our model on the task of cloze-style reading comprehension.
Dataset. SQuAD is a machine comprehension dataset on a large set of Wikipedia articles, with
more than 100,000 questions. The answer to each question is always a span in the context. The
model is given a credit if its answer matches one of the human written answers. Two metrics are
used to evaluate models: Exact Match (EM) and a softer metric, F1 score, which measures the
weighted average of the precision and recall rate at character level. The dataset consists of 90k/10k
train/dev question-context tuples with a large hidden test set. It is one of the largest available MC
datasets with human-written questions and serves as a great test bed for our model.
Model Details. The model architecture used for this task is depicted in Figure 1. Each paragraph
and question are tokenized by a regular-expression-based word tokenizer (PTB Tokenizer) and fed
into the model. We use 100 1D filters for CNN char embedding, each with a width of 5. The hidden
state size (d) of the model is 100. We use the AdaDelta (Zeiler, 2012) optimizer, with a minibatch
5
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
Single Model Ensemble
EM F1 EM F1
Logistic Regression Baseline1 40.4 51.0 - -
Dynamic Chunk Reader2 62.5 71.0 - -
Fine-Grained Gating3 62.5 73.3 - -
Match LSTM4 64.7 73.7 67.9 77.0
Multi-Perspective Matching5 65.5 75.1 68.2 77.2
Dynamic Coattention Networks6 66.2 75.9 71.6 80.4
R-Net7 68.4 77.5 72.1 79.7
BIDAF (Ours) 68.0 77.3 73.3 81.1
(a) Results on the SQuAD test set
EM F1
No char embedding 65.0 75.4
No word embedding 55.5 66.8
No C2Q attention 57.7 69.0
No Q2C attention 63.6 73.7
Dynamic attention 63.5 73.6
BIDAF (single) 68.0 77.3
BIDAF (ensemble) 73.3 81.1
(b) Ablations on the SQuAD dev set
Table 1: (1a) The performance of our model BIDAF and competing approaches by Rajpurkar et al.
(2016)1, Yu et al. (2016)2, Yang et al. (2016)3,Wang & Jiang (2016)4, IBMWatson5 (unpublished),
Xiong et al. (2016b)6, and Microsoft Research Asia7 (unpublished) on the SQuAD test set. Results
shown here reflect the SQuAD leaderboard as of 28 Nov 2016, 12pm PST. (1b) The performance of
our model and its ablations on the SQuAD dev set. Ablation results are presented only for single
runs.
size of 60 and an initial learning rate of 0:5, for 12 epochs. A dropout (Srivastava et al., 2014) rate
of 0:2 is used for the CNN, all LSTM layers, and the linear transformation before the softmax for
the answers. During training, the moving averages of all weights of the model are maintained with
the exponential decay rate of 0:999. At test time, the moving averages instead of the raw weights
are used. The training process takes roughly 20 hours on a single Titan X GPU. We also train an
ensemble model consisting of 12 training runs with the identical architecture and hyper-parameters.
At test time, we choose the answer with the highest sum of confidence scores amongst the 12 runs
for each question.
Results. The results of our model and competing approaches on the hidden test are summarized in
Table 1a. BIDAF(ensemble) achieves an EM score of 73.3 and an F1 score of 81.1, outperforming
all previous approaches.
Ablations. Table 1b shows the performance of our model and its ablations on the SQuAD dev
set. Both char-level and word-level embeddings contribute towards the model’s performance. We
conjecture that word-level embedding is better at representing the semantics of each word as a whole,
while char-level embedding can better handle out-of-vocab (OOV) or rare words. To evaluate bidirectional
attention, we remove C2Q and Q2C attentions. For ablating C2Q attention, we replace
the attended question vector ~U
with the average of the output vectors of the question’s phrase embed
layer (LSTM). C2Q attention proves to be critical with a drop of more than 10 points on both metrics.
For ablating Q2C attention, the output of the attention layer, G, does not include terms that have
the attended Q2C vectors, ~ H. To evaluate the attention flow, we study a dynamic attention model,
where the attention is dynamically computed within the modeling layer’s LSTM, following previous
work (Bahdanau et al., 2015;Wang & Jiang, 2016). This is in contrast with our approach, where the
attention is pre-computed before flowing to the modeling layer. Despite being a simpler attention
mechanism, our proposed static attention outperforms the dynamically computed attention by more
than 3 points. We conjecture that separating out the attention layer results in a richer set of features
computed in the first 4 layers which are then incorporated by the modeling layer.
Visualizations. We now provide a qualitative analysis of our model on the SQuAD dev set. First,
we visualize the feature spaces after the Word and Phrase Embedding Layers. These two layers are
responsible for aligning the embeddings between the query and context words which are the inputs
to the subsequent Attention Layer. To visualize the embeddings, we choose a few frequent query
words in the dev data and look at the context words that have the highest cosine similarity to the
query words (Table 2). At the Word Layer, query words such as When, Where and Who are not well
aligned to possible answers in the context, but this dramatically changes in the Phrase Layer which
has access to context from surrounding words and is just 1 layer below the Attention Layer. When
begins to match years, Where matches locations, and Who matches names.
We also visualize these two feature spaces using t-SNE in Figure 2. t-SNE is performed on a large
fraction of dev data but we only plot data points corresponding to the months of the year. An in-
6
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
Layer Query Closest words in the Context using cosine similarity
Token When when, When, After, after, He, he, But, but, before, Before
Phrase When When, when, 1945, 1991, 1971, 1967, 1990, 1972, 1965, 1953
Token Where Where, where, It, IT, it, they, They, that, That, city
Phrase Where where, Where, Rotterdam, area, Nearby, location, outside, Area, across, locations
Token Who Who, who, He, he, had, have, she, She, They, they
Phrase Who who, whose, whom, Guiscard, person, John, Thomas, families, Elway, Louis
Token city City, city, town, Town, Capital, capital, district, cities, province, Downtown
Phrase city city, City, Angeles, Paris, Prague, Chicago, Port, Pittsburgh, London, Manhattan
Token January July, December, June, October, January, September, February, April, November, March
Phrase January January, March, December, August, December, July, July, July, March, December
Token Seahawks Seahawks, Broncos, 49ers, Ravens, Chargers, Steelers, quarterback, Vikings, Colts, NFL
Phrase Seahawks Seahawks, Broncos, Panthers, Vikings, Packers, Ravens, Patriots, Falcons, Steelers, Chargers
Token date date, dates, until, Until, June, July, Year, year, December, deadline
Phrase date date, dates, December, July, January, October, June, November, March, February
Table 2: Closest context words to a given query word, using a cosine similarity metric computed in the Word
Embedding feature space and the Phrase Embedding feature space.
January
September
August
July
May
may
effect and may result in
the state may not aid
of these may be more
Opening in May 1852 at
debut on May 5 ,
from 28 January to 25
but by September had been
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 2: (a) t-SNE visualizations of the months names embedded in the two feature spaces. The Phrase Layer
is able to distinguish the two usages of the word May using context from the surrounding text. (b) Venn diagram
of the questions answered correctly by our model and the more traditional baseline (Rajpurkar et al., 2016). (c)
Correctly answered questions broken down by the 10 most frequent first words in the question.
teresting pattern emerges in the Word space, where May is separated from the rest of the months
because May has multiple meanings in the English language. The Phrase Layer uses contextual cues
from surrounding words and is able to separate the usages of the word May. Finally we visualize the
attention matrices for some question-context tuples in the dev data in Figure 3. In the first example,
Where matches locations and in the second example, many matches quantities and numerical symbols.
Also, entities in the question typically attend to the same entities in the context, thus providing
a feature for the model to localize possible answers.
Discussions. We analyse the performance of our our model with a traditional language-featurebased
baseline (Rajpurkar et al., 2016). Figure 2b shows a Venn diagram of the dev set questions
correctly answered by the models. Our model is able to answer more than 86% of the questions
correctly answered by the baseline. The 14% that are incorrectly answered does not have a clear
pattern. This suggests that neural architectures are able to exploit much of the information captured
by the language features. We also break this comparison down by the first words in the questions
(Figure 2c). Our model outperforms the traditional baseline comfortably in every category.
Error Analysis. We randomly select 50 incorrect questions (based on EM) and categorize them
into 6 classes. 50% of errors are due to the imprecise boundaries of the answers, 28% involve
syntactic complications and ambiguities, 14% are paraphrase problems, 4% require external knowledge,
2% need multiple sentences to answer, and 2% are due to mistakes during tokenization. See
Appendix for the examples of the error modes.
5 CLOZE TEST EXPERIMENTS
We also evaluate our model on the task of cloze-style reading comprehension using the CNN and
Daily Mail datasets (Hermann et al., 2015).
7
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
There%are%13 natural%reserves%in%Warsaw%–
among%others%,%Bielany Forest%,%Kabaty
Woods%,%Czerniaków Lake%.%About%15%
kilometres (%9%miles%)%from%Warsaw%,%the%
Vistula%river%'s%environment%changes%
strikingly%and%features%a%perfectly%preserved%
ecosystem%,%with%a%habitat%of%animals%that%
includes%the%otter%,%beaver%and%hundreds%of%
bird%species%.%There%are%also%several%lakes%in%
Warsaw%– mainly%the%oxbow%lakes%,%like%
Czerniaków Lake%,%the%lakes%in%the%Łazienki
or%Wilanów Parks%,%Kamionek Lake%.%There%
are%lot%of%small%lakes%in%the%parks%,%but%only%a%
few%are%permanent%– the%majority%are%
emptied%before%winter%to%clean%them%of%
plants%and%sediments%.
How
many
natural
reserves
are
there
in
Warsaw
?
[]
hundreds, few, among, 15, several, only, 13, 9
natural, of
reserves
are, are, are, are, are, includes
[]
[]
Warsaw, Warsaw, Warsaw
inter species
Where
did
Super
Bowl
50
take
place
?
Super%Bowl%50%was%an%American%football%game%
to%determine%the%champion%of%the%National%
Football%League%(%NFL%)%for%the%2015%season%.%
The%American%Football%Conference%(%AFC%)%
champion% Denver%Broncos%defeated%the%
National%Football%Conference%(%NFC%)%champion%
Carolina%Panthers%24–10%to%earn%their%third%
Super%Bowl%title%.%The%game%was%played%on%
February%7%,%2016%,%at%Levi%'s%Stadium%in%the%
San%Francisco%Bay%Area%at%Santa%Clara%,%
California .%As%this%was%the%50th%Super%Bowl%,%
the%league%emphasized%the%"%golden%
anniversary%"%with%various%goldZthemed%
initiatives%,%as%well%as%temporarily%suspending%
the%tradition%of%naming%each%Super%Bowl%game%
with%Roman%numerals%(%under%which%the%game%
would%have%been%known%as%"%Super%Bowl%L%"%)%,%
so%that%the%logo%could%prominently%feature%the%
Arabic%numerals%50%.
at, the, at, Stadium, Levi, in, Santa, Ana
[]
Super, Super, Super, Super, Super
Bowl, Bowl, Bowl, Bowl, Bowl
50
initiatives
Figure 3: Attention matrices for question-context tuples. The left palette shows the context sentences (correct
answer in red), the middle palette shows the attention matrix (each row is a question word, each column is a
context word), and the right palette shows the top attention points for each question word, above a threshold.
Dataset. In a cloze test, the reader is asked to fill in words that have been removed from a passage,
for measuring one’s ability to comprehend text. Hermann et al. (2015) have recently compiled a massive
Cloze-style comprehension dataset, consisting of 300k/4k/3k and 879k/65k/53k (train/dev/test)
examples from CNN and DailyMail news articles, respectively. Each example has a news article and
an incomplete sentence extracted from the human-written summary of the article. To distinguish this
task from language modeling and force one to refer to the article to predict the correct missing word,
the missing word is always a named entity, anonymized with random IDs. Also, the IDs must be
shuffled constantly during training and test, which is also critical for full anonymization.
Model Details. The model architecture used for this task is very similar to that for SQuAD (Section
4) with only a few small changes to adapt it to the cloze test. Since each answer in the
CNN/DailyMail datasets is always a single word (entity), we only need to predict the start index
(p1); the prediction for the second index (p2) is omitted from the loss function. Also, we mask
out all non-entity words in the final classification layer so that they are forced to be excluded from
possible answers. Another important difference from SQuAD is that the answer entity might appear
more than once in the context paragraph. To address this, we follow a similar strategy from Kadlec
et al. (2016). During training, after we obtain p1, we sum all probability values of the entity instances
in the context that correspond to the correct answer. Then the loss function is computed
from the summed probability. We use a minibatch size of 48 and train for 8 epochs, with early stop
when the accuracy on validation data starts to drop. Inspired by the window-based method (Hill
et al., 2016), we split each article into short sentences where each sentence is a 19-word window
around each entity (hence the same word might appear in multiple sentences). The RNNs in BIDAF
are not feed-forwarded or back-propagated across sentences, which speed up the training process by
parallelization. The entire training process takes roughly 60 hours on eight Titan X GPUs. The other
hyper-parameters are identical to the model described in Section 4.
Results. The results of our single-run models and competing approaches on the CNN/DailyMail
datasets are summarized in Table 3.  indicates ensemble methods. BIDAF outperforms previous
single-run models on both datasets for both val and test data. On the DailyMail test, our single-run
model even outperforms ensemble methods.
6 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we introduce BIDAF, a multi-stage hierarchical process that represents the context at
different levels of granularity and uses a bi-directional attention flow mechanism to achieve a queryaware
context representation without early summarization. The experimental evaluations show that
8
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
CNN DailyMail
val test val test
Attentive Reader (Hermann et al., 2015) 61.6 63.0 70.5 69.0
MemNN (Hill et al., 2016) 63.4 6.8 - -
AS Reader (Kadlec et al., 2016) 68.6 69.5 75.0 73.9
Stanford AR (Chen et al., 2016) 68.6 69.5 75.0 73.9
DER Network (Kobayashi et al., 2016) 71.3 72.9 - -
Iterative Attention (Sordoni et al., 2016) 72.6 73.3 - -
EpiReader (Trischler et al., 2016) 73.4 74.0 - -
GAReader (Dhingra et al., 2016) 73.0 73.8 76.7 75.7
AoA Reader (Cui et al., 2016) 73.1 74.4 - -
ReasoNet (Shen et al., 2016) 72.9 74.7 77.6 76.6
BIDAF (Ours) 76.3 76.9 80.3 79.6
MemNN (Hill et al., 2016) 66.2 69.4 - -
ASReader (Kadlec et al., 2016) 73.9 75.4 78.7 77.7
Iterative Attention (Sordoni et al., 2016) 74.5 75.7 - -
GA Reader (Dhingra et al., 2016) 76.4 77.4 79.1 78.1
Table 3: Results on CNN/DailyMail datasets. We also include the results of previous ensemble
methods (marked with ) for completeness.
our model achieves the state-of-the-art results in Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD)
and CNN/DailyMail cloze test. The ablation analyses demonstrate the importance of each component
in our model. The visualizations and discussions show that our model is learning a suitable
representation for MC and is capable of answering complex questions by attending to correct locations
in the given paragraph. Future work involves extending our approach to incorporate multiple
hops of the attention layer.
9
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
REFERENCES
Stanislaw Antol, Aishwarya Agrawal, Jiasen Lu, Margaret Mitchell, Dhruv Batra, C Lawrence Zitnick,
and Devi Parikh. Vqa: Visual question answering. In ICCV, 2015.
Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Neural machine translation by jointly
learning to align and translate. ICLR, 2015.
Danqi Chen, Jason Bolton, and Christopher D. Manning. A thorough examination of the cnn/daily
mail reading comprehension task. In ACL, 2016.
Yiming Cui, Zhipeng Chen, Si Wei, Shijin Wang, Ting Liu, and Guoping Hu. Attention-overattention
neural networks for reading comprehension. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.04423, 2016.
Bhuwan Dhingra, Hanxiao Liu, William W Cohen, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Gated-attention
readers for text comprehension. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01549, 2016.
Akira Fukui, Dong Huk Park, Daylen Yang, Anna Rohrbach, Trevor Darrell, and Marcus Rohrbach.
Multimodal compact bilinear pooling for visual question answering and visual grounding. In
EMNLP, 2016.
Karl Moritz Hermann, Tom´as Kocisk´y, Edward Grefenstette, Lasse Espeholt, Will Kay, Mustafa
Suleyman, and Phil Blunsom. Teaching machines to read and comprehend. In NIPS, 2015.
Felix Hill, Antoine Bordes, Sumit Chopra, and Jason Weston. The goldilocks principle: Reading
children’s books with explicit memory representations. In ICLR, 2016.
Sepp Hochreiter and Jurgen Schmidhuber. Long short-term memory. Neural Computation, 1997.
Rudolf Kadlec, Martin Schmid, Ondrej Bajgar, and Jan Kleindienst. Text understanding with the
attention sum reader network. In ACL, 2016.
Yoon Kim. Convolutional neural networks for sentence classification. In EMNLP, 2014.
Sosuke Kobayashi, Ran Tian, Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui. Dynamic entity representation
with max-pooling improves machine reading. In NAACL-HLT, 2016.
Jiasen Lu, Jianwei Yang, Dhruv Batra, and Devi Parikh. Hierarchical question-image co-attention
for visual question answering. In NIPS, 2016.
Mateusz Malinowski, Marcus Rohrbach, and Mario Fritz. Ask your neurons: A neural-based approach
to answering questions about images. In ICCV, 2015.
Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D Manning. Glove: Global vectors for word
representation. In EMNLP, 2014.
Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and Percy Liang. Squad: 100,000+ questions
for machine comprehension of text. In EMNLP, 2016.
Matthew Richardson, Christopher JC Burges, and Erin Renshaw. Mctest: A challenge dataset for
the open-domain machine comprehension of text. In EMNLP, 2013.
Yelong Shen, Po-Sen Huang, Jianfeng Gao, and Weizhu Chen. Reasonet: Learning to stop reading
in machine comprehension. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.05284, 2016.
Alessandro Sordoni, Phillip Bachman, and Yoshua Bengio. Iterative alternating neural attention for
machine reading. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.02245, 2016.
Nitish Srivastava, Geoffrey E. Hinton, Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov.
Dropout: a simple way to prevent neural networks from overfitting. JMLR, 2014.
Rupesh Kumar Srivastava, Klaus Greff, and J¨urgen Schmidhuber. Highway networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1505.00387, 2015.
Adam Trischler, Zheng Ye, Xingdi Yuan, and Kaheer Suleman. Natural language comprehension
with the epireader. In EMNLP, 2016.
10
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
Shuohang Wang and Jing Jiang. Machine comprehension using match-lstm and answer pointer.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.07905, 2016.
Jason Weston, Sumit Chopra, and Antoine Bordes. Memory networks. In ICLR, 2015.
Caiming Xiong, Stephen Merity, and Richard Socher. Dynamic memory networks for visual and
textual question answering. In ICML, 2016a.
Caiming Xiong, Victor Zhong, and Richard Socher. Dynamic coattention networks for question
answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.01604, 2016b.
Huijuan Xu and Kate Saenko. Ask, attend and answer: Exploring question-guided spatial attention
for visual question answering. In ECCV, 2016.
Zhilin Yang, Bhuwan Dhingra, Ye Yuan, Junjie Hu, William W Cohen, and Ruslan Salakhutdinov.
Words or characters? fine-grained gating for reading comprehension. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1611.01724, 2016.
Zichao Yang, Xiaodong He, Jianfeng Gao, Li Deng, and Alex Smola. Stacked attention networks
for image question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.02274, 2015.
Yang Yu, Wei Zhang, Kazi Hasan, Mo Yu, Bing Xiang, and Bowen Zhou. End-to-end reading
comprehension with dynamic answer chunk ranking. arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.09996, 2016.
Matthew D Zeiler. Adadelta: an adaptive learning rate method. arXiv preprint arXiv:1212.5701,
2012.
Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Michael S. Bernstein, and Li Fei-Fei. Visual7w: Grounded question answering
in images. In CVPR, 2016.
11
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017
A ERROR ANALYSIS
The Table below summarizes the modes of errors by BIDAF and shows examples for each category
of error.
Error type Ratio (%) Example
Imprecise
answer
boundaries
50
Context: “The Free Movement ofWorkers Regulation articles 1
to 7 set out the main provisions on equal treatment of workers.”
Question: “Which articles of the Free Movement of Workers
Regulation set out the primary provisions on equal treatment of
workers?”
Prediction: “1 to 7”, Answer: “articles 1 to 7”
Syntactic
complications
and
ambiguities
28
Context: “A piece of paper was later found on which Luther
had written his last statement. ”
Question: “What was later discovered written by Luther?”
Prediction: “A piece of paper”, Answer: “his last statement”
Paraphrase
problems 14
Context: “Generally, education in Australia follows the threetier
model which includes primary education (primary schools),
followed by secondary education (secondary schools/high
schools) and tertiary education (universities and/or TAFE
colleges).”
Question: “What is the first model of education, in the Australian
system?”
Prediction: “three-tier”, Answer: “primary education”
External
knowledge 4
Context: “On June 4, 2014, the NFL announced that the
practice of branding Super Bowl games with Roman numerals,
a practice established at Super Bowl V, would be temporarily
suspended, and that the game would be named using Arabic
numerals as Super Bowl 50 as opposed to Super Bowl L.”
Question: “If Roman numerals were used in the naming of the
50th Super Bowl, which one would have been used?’
Prediction: “Super Bowl 50”, Answer: “L”
Multisentence
2
Context: “Over the next several years in addition to host to host
interactive connections the network was enhanced to support
terminal to host connections, host to host batch connections
(remote job submission, remote printing, batch file transfer),
interactive file transfer, gateways to the Tymnet and Telenet
public data networks, X.25 host attachments, gateways to X.25
data networks, Ethernet attached hosts, and eventually TCP/IP
and additional public universities in Michigan join the network.
All of this set the stage for Merit’s role in the NSFNET project
starting in the mid-1980s.”
Question: “What set the stage for Merits role in NSFNET”
Prediction: “All of this set the stage for Merit ’s role in the
NSFNET project starting in the mid-1980s”, Answer: “Ethernet
attached hosts, and eventually TCP/IP and additional public
universities in Michigan join the network”
Incorrect
preprocessing 2
Context: “English chemist John Mayow (1641-1679) refined
this work by showing that fire requires only a part of air that
he called spiritus nitroaereus or just nitroaereus.”
Question: “John Mayow died in what year?”
Prediction: “1641-1679”, Answer: “1679”
Table 4: Error analysis. We randomly selected incorrect answers (based on EM metric) and classified
them into 6 different categories. Only relevant sentence(s) from the context shown for brevity.
12